R. S. Bussmann, D. Riechers, A. Fialkov, J. Scudder, C. C. Hayward, W. I. Cowley, J. Bock, J. Calanog, S. C. Chapman, A. Cooray, F. De Bernardis, D. Farrah, Hai Fu, R. Gavazzi, R. Hopwood, R. J. Ivison, M. Jarvis, C. Lacey, A. Loeb, S. J. Oliver, I. Perez-Fournon, D. Rigopoulou, I. G. Roseboom, Douglas Scott, A. J. Smith, J. D. Vieira, L. Wang, J. Wardlow

The Herschel Multi-tiered Extragalactic Survey (HerMES) has identified large numbers of dusty star-forming galaxies (DSFGs) over a wide range in redshift.  A detailed understanding of these DSFGs is hampered by the poor spatial resolution of Herschel.  We present 870um 0.45" imaging obtained in Cycle 0 with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) of a sample of 29 HerMES DSFGs.  The ALMA imaging reveals that these DSFGs comprise a total of 62 sources (down to the 5-sigma limit in our ALMA sample; sigma~0.2 mJy).  Optical imaging indicates that 36 of the ALMA sources experience a significant flux boost from gravitational lensing (mu>1.1), but only 6 are strongly lensed and show multiple images.  We introduce and make use of uvmcmcfit, a general purpose and publicly available Markov chain Monte Carlo visibility plane analysis tool to analyze the source properties.  Combined with our previous work on brighter Herschel sources, the lens models presented here tentatively favor intrinsic number counts for DSFGs with a break near 8 mJy at 880um and a steep fall off at higher flux densities.  Nearly 70% of the Herschel sources break down into multiple ALMA counterparts, consistent with previous research indicating that the multiplicity rate is high in bright sources discovered in single-dish sub-mm or FIR surveys.  The ALMA counterparts to our Herschel targets are located significantly closer to each other than ALMA counterparts to sources found in the LABOCA ECDFS Submillimeter Survey.  Theoretical models underpredict the excess number of sources with small separations seen in our ALMA sample.  The high multiplicity rate and low projected separations between sources seen in our sample argue in favor of interactions and mergers plausibly driving both the prodigious emission from the brightest DSFGs as well as the sharp downturn above S_880 = 8 mJy.


