Lingyu Wang

*At the start of the introduction, you talked about the redshift distribution
of FIR and sub-mm selected galaxies.  I assume you are not just talking about
850 micron selected galaxies, but the two references you gave (Chapman +,
Bothwell +) studied only 850 micron selected sources. There is quite some
difference between the N(z) of 850 micron selected sources and say 250 micron
selected sources. Obviously the N(z) also depends on the flux cut you applied
to your sample. Alex Amblard, Asantha Cooray, Matthieu Bethermin and I (there
are others) have done some empirical modelling work on the N(z) of the majority
of Herschel sources responsible for making up the CIB. I think Matthieu has
some papers on the N(z) of bright sources from his empirical modelling work
too.

The references I have are for actual measurements of redshifts from
observations, and I want to keep the focus there for the purposes of this part
of the paper.

* In Section 2, if I understood correctly, your sample came from the XID
  catalogue with 250 micron star finder sources as a prior. There is a standard
reference for this catalogue, Wang et al. (2014),
http://adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/bib_query?arXiv:1312.0552

This section has been re-worked, and it now includes a reference to your paper.

* In the abstract, you said you compared your results with predictions from
  hydrodynamical simulation and semi-analytical model. The hydrodynamical model
you are referring to come from the Hayward et al. 2013 model, right? But that
is not a hydrodynamical simulations. If I understand correctly, what was done
in the Hayward model was to populate galaxies into halos from dark matter
simulations according to the SHAM method in Behroozi et al. and then use
prescriptions derived from small hydrodynamical simulations of isolated systems
to assign dust emission to the mock galaxies. As far as I can see, this is
entirely different from simulations such as illustrius and eagle, and so is not
a hydrodynamical simulation at all. Could we rephrase this in the paper so
people don't get the wrong impression?

Yes, this is an important distinction.  I’ve rephrased the abstract to refer
simply to "theoretical models".

*In Fig. 6, could you add errors on dN/dA?

Done.

* Also, as far as I know there is no lensing in the Durham SAM or the hybrid
  model in the Hayward et al. paper. Does that not impact on the comparison
between your observations and the model predictions?

It’s true that there is no lensing in either model.  But this does not impact
the relative positions of the sources very much.  It has a big impact on the
brightness of the sources, but not the relative positions.  So I don’t think
this is a huge concern at this point.


Alex Conley

* Some boring notes about source names: pretty much all of these have standard
  format HerMES names, and it would be very helpful if you used those to
prevent further confusion.  Actually, almost all of them are already using that
name, but there are some exceptions.  I don’t care about things like formatting
(COS1 vs COSMOS1, since people can muddle their way between them), but it would
do nothing but prevent future confusion if the numbers were kept consistent.

* Even if you chose to completely ignore that, please don’t call a source
  ElaisS1.  Elais-S1 is the  name of the -field- that your ElaisS1 source is
in, which is really confusing.

* Incidentally, there is an Elais-S2 field, it just wasn’t observed by HerMES.

* ADFS_M0 is ADFS10
* CDFS_M0 is CDFS_11
* CDFS_M1 is CDFS_10
* ElaisS1 is ElaisS1_1

Source names have been revised to be consistent with the methodology used in
Wardlow+13 and Calanog+14.

Edo Ibar

* Great work!. I specially like your decision to make uvmcmcfit available to
  the community. I do not have any major comment, but I think it is worth
explaining a bit better the way in which the targets were selected, and how
these sources lie "between" to the SMA and the LESS sample.

Yes, this is now addressed in the revised version.

* The analysis is clearly oriented to the gravitational lensing effect in the
  20<S_500/mJy<100 population, which is not the "classical" Negrello+10's
criterion, but more related to this other HATLAS publication
http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...749...65G Actually, it would be really
useful to test this HALOS criteria using the available K band imaging in HerMES
fields. 

Sounds like a good idea for future work.

* Given the lower S_500 fluxes, I do not see the need to force the detection of
  gravitational lensing over 10% magnification, mu>1.1 (you repeat this as
"significant" boost/amplification in the text). Actually this is of the order
of magnitude of the flux calibration uncertainty of the ALMA imaging. I do not
know, I personally would define mu>2 as "strong lensing", and explain the
selection criteria accordingly.

I’ve decided to consider only mu>2 in the revised draft to simplify the
analysis and clarify the results.

* Typos:
* There are a couple of extra parenthesis on the second paragraph of section
  5.1.
* I do not find what means the S with apostrophe in the conclusion.

Fixed.

Duncan Farrah

All comments received in marked up pdf file have been addressed.

Rob Ivison

* I've scanned an annotated copy of your draft and uploaded it to the wiki.
  Please drop me a line if anything is unclear.

* The most important point is that even as a member of the team I don't feel
  able to describe exactly how the sample was selected.  I feel the paper needs
a clear statement about whether any biases exists towards finding lenses, other
than that due to the flux limit.

* Other than that, If found it an enjoyable read.  Thanks for putting it
  together and sharing in a timely way.

The sample selection has been substantially revised.  Other comments received
in the marked up pdf file have been addressed as well.


Julie Wardlow

There's some really nice work here, and I think you've done a good job of
balancing the competing needs of the sample ('normal' SMGs vs lensing vs
blending), particularly in the abstract and introduction.

My two main science concerns are: 1) The description of the sample selection
isn't clear, and is misleading: the sample selection didn't involve starfinder
or 250um (I know we have already discussed this) 2) That the sample is
necessarily biased towards more blended sources*, which will necessarily affect
the statistics in section 4.2 (and to a lesser extent section 4.3.
* All of the 'faint' end of the sample (S500<80mJy) is things that were bright
  in blank 500um catalogues (v5), but that were deblended in v21 (i.e. when
there were higher resolution submm priors). Therefore I don't find it at all
surprising that the blending rate is higher than ALESS and higher than the
models might predict. It's a biased sampling of sources, but at the moment it
is treated as a random sample for the blending discussion.

Also, the source names used throughout are 'internal' names and not the
published names. You should use the published names rather than these ones to
avoid audience confusion and so that HerMES is consistent with this. e.g. your
XMM06 is HXMM02 in my and Jae's papers. The smg.pbworks wiki has many of the
name "translations" and there are more in Jae's paper. If there are other
sources we should rename them consistently with what has already been published
(we had to do this for a couple in Jae's paper too).

More detailed comments below.

Cheers, Julie


General:
- ALESS needs introducing properly since it is referred to a lot and used as a
  comparison sample, but it currently doesn't say what ALESS is or its
relevance to this study.
- Labels in several figure legends could be clearer. e.g. "Herschel" on fig 1
  could be "Lens candidates" or "Herschel lens" ; figure 7 right should say
what is the data etc
- Most of the tables could do with a footnote/notes section with more
  information about the column meanings and details. (e.g. the different "Lens
Grade" in table 1 meaning, eanign of rs, qs etc in table 3).
- The 10% calibration uncertainty mentioned in table 1 should specify for ALMA
  and/or Herschel fluxes, and there should be a note about confusion noise for
Herschel too.
- Section 2.2 would be affected by the tests I suggest below about comparing
  the ALMA positions with multiplicity in the Starfinder (v21) catalogues.
- Consistency: the text above fig 2 says the contours are 250 or 350um and
  labelled but the caption says 250um.
- Redshifts of sources are not mentioned anywhere. I understand that they're
  not part of the science here, but I think perhaps any spectroscopic redshifts
should be mentioned in the individual source discussions.
- In my opinion the discussion of the individual sources should be in an
  appendix rather than in the main text, because it distracts a bit from the
flow of the sample science.
- The purple source plane 'blobs' on figure 3 are really hard to see when
  printed (even in colour). Perhaps you could use a different colour or a
darker tone.
- There are two figure 3's.
- It's unclear why the 5 sources in the 2nd figure 3 are special, to warrant
  additional cutouts over all the other targets.
- Section 4.1: may also be relevant to mention work on lensing bias affecting
  luminosity functions (e.g. Wyithe et al).
- Section 4.3: Need to specify whether relative positions and positional
  offsets are apparent/observed or source plane (lensing corrected). This could
particularly affect the discussion of the apparent small separation sources
(i.e. if they are just different lensed images)
- In the discussion of fraction of gals with mu>1.1 in section 5.2, I wonder
  whether including ALESS in the statistics makes a difference here. I'm just
thinking about possible sample biases that could affect it. Or maybe whether
this is really telling us that surveys like ALESS are significantly affected by
weak lensing and that maybe some of their properties should be revisited (this
isn't a fully formed idea yet, but hopefully you can see what I'm getting at
and add something if you've thought about it a little more).
- Figure 7:it'd be nice to see uncertainties on the predictions here.
- Conclusion and fig 7 is the first time that the S' notation is used so it
  currently isn't defined.
- Conclusion point 3 could include some numbers for what close means.
- Acknowledgements: please add "The Dark Cosmology Centre is funded by the
  Danish National Research Foundation."

Introduction:
- 1st para: DSFGs aren't necessarily in "significant" over densities, or
  progenitors of the -most- massive ellipitcals. e.g. Hickox et al. 2012 show
that LESS galaxies are in group (not cluster) scale halos.
- The SPT sample isn't so similar toe Herschel: it's longer wavelength, lower
  resolution and much lower sensitivity. I can see why you need to mention it,
but it could be better balanced here.

Section 3:
- Have you done any tests of the validity of the Bolton lens code compared with
  Gravlens. I think something about that should be mentioned here (e.g. that
results are consistent generally/in simple situations/etc). [end of page 8, top
of page 9]
- Consistency: halfway down the left column on page 9 it says that N_source is
  the number of Sersic profiles, but previously says that Gaussians are used
- The particular values/ranges of the priors chosen should perhaps be explained
  (some of them are, but not all).
- It's non-obvious whether the log(2*pi*sigma^2) in equation 1 is inside the
  sum or not.
- ADSF05 paragraph mentions a merger scenario, but a similar discussion could
  pertain to other sources (e.g. ADFS04) but isn't included in those sections.
- A non-HerMES/non-lensing person reading the individual source description may
  wonder why the 'spin' is on why X-source can't be lensed, rather than why
Y-source must be lensed. Because lensing is rare most work/people default to no
lensing, unless there is evidence otherwise. The text here tends to the other
way (which makes sense given our backgrounds with these sources, but probably
won't make sense to outsiders given the rest of the text).
- XMM06 is also the Ikarashi et al. SXDF source.

Typos:
- section 2.3 end of 1st para is missing a ).
- missing reference just after equation 2 (shows as '(?)' in pdf).


Hai Fu

Another very interesting paper! Hope my comments are not too late ...

Title:

* perhaps strike "SPATIALLY RESOLVED” so make the title more succinct?

Yeah, sure.

Abstract:

* "We identify a total of 62 sources down to the 5σ limit in our ALMA sample (σ
  ≈ 0.2 mJy)”, please add “within the Herschel beams” so that it is more clear
that the 29 Herschel sources break up into 62 ALMA sources.

Reworded this sentence to make it clearer.

* "The ALMA counterparts to our Herschel targets are located much closer to
  each other than ALMA counterparts to sources found in the LABOCA ECDFS
Submillimeter Survey.” Can you quantify the difference somehow? E.g., quote the
median separations among broken-up sources in both surveys and compare with
their beam sizes?

Changed “much” to “significant”.  

* “the intrinsic luminosity function for DSFGs to have a break around 8 mJy”,
  is it more appropriate to use “source count function” instead of “luminosity
function” here because you are quoting a break in flux density instead of
luminosity?

I agree with you, but I think people are generally pretty loose about the use
of the term luminosity function.

Fig 1

* It would be best to cite the relevant papers in the figure legend, to make
  room, you can replace Herschel with Wardlow+13, SMA with Bussmann+13, and so
on.

This paper focuses on high-resolution observations, so the comparison samples
here are ones with high-res imaging.  I’ve modified the legend a bit to make it
more clear.

* The SMA subsample is in fact open circles instead of filled circles, change
  that in the legend.

This should be fixed now.

Fig 2

* It would be good to state the contour levels of the 250um emission, e.g., 20,
  50, 75% of the peak value.

Agreed.

Fig 3

* I think the current line colors for different components are too similar:
  orange, red and purple, maybe change to green, red, and blue?

Orange is the customary color for critical curves.  Red matches what I used in
Bussmann et al. 2013, so I don’t want to change that.  Purple/magenta could be
changed, but I think the purple shapes can be seen pretty well in the residual
panels, so I’m not too worried about this right now.

Tables

* I noticed that the source and lens redshifts are not reported anywhere? Are
  they unimportant for your analysis? or did you assume fixed redshifts for
those that do not have redshift measurements?

They are unimportant for the analysis reported here, except that we have to
make an assumption about the distribution of lens and source redshifts for the
magnification factor predictions in the last section of the paper.  It turns
out the predictions are not too sensitive to variations in the redshift
distributions.

Fig 6

* Another way of showing this excess is to compute the fraction of your sources
  that would still be broken up into multiples at the resolution of the other
survey. Did you compare those numbers?

This is exactly what the yellow line shows in the diagram (was called “ALMA
sample ALESS-Sim” in old version, now is called “Herschel-ALMA ALESS-Sim”).  It
is what we would have measured if we’d observed our sample with the
ALESS-quality observations. This is stated both in the caption and text.  You
are talking about the dN/dA figure, right?

Fig 7

* The model predictions also depend on the shape of the assumed dark matter
  halos and redshift distributions, are there such degeneracies between the
source count function that you’re trying to constrain and other parameters that
are not shown here in the figure?

The goal of this paper is not to do an exhaustive exploration of all of the
possible parameters of the model.  That would be better suited to its own
paper.  Instead, the goal is to explore a range of plausible intrinsic
luminosity functions and measure how consistent they are with the observed
magnification factors from the combined ALMA and SMA samples.


Douglas Scott

* Shane - Nice paper, which certainly pushes the subject forward.
* I'll send detailed comments separately.  But my main reactions are:
* 1. There's no discussion of goodness-of-fit for the lens modelling.

Equation 1 gives the prescription for computing the goodness of fit explicitly.
I guess you’re looking for the maximum likelihood estimate of the best-fit
model?  I feel like this does not add a lot of value beyond the visual
impression in Figure 3 of the residual plot.

*2. The Einstein radius seems to fairly often be fixed to some round number,
like 0.5" or 1.0" - but then mu is still given to high precision - so
presumably some uncertainty in the lens modelling is ignored when determining
this error?

Thanks for noticing this.  The previous draft gave the mu measurement assuming
the given einstein radius value.  However, that value is actually the upper
limit on the true einstein radius (and hence mu).  In the revised draft, I
re-compute mu as mu= (mu_limiting + 1)/2 and the uncertainty in mu as e_mu =
(mu_limiting - 1)/2

* 3. The dN/dA thing seemed a bit harder to follow than it needed to be. For a
  start "N" itself is often a number per unit area.  And then the definition of
distance from the centroid seems less obvious as a statistic than just the
distance between pairs.  And easier to interpret I'd say (since it's directly
related to w(theta) etc.).

This was the best way I could think to quantify the effect we are seeing (it
also follows the unit labeling procedure established in Hodge et al. 2013).
Pair separations are not as useful in systems with more than two components,
right?  If you have a five-component system, then there are 5*4/2 = 10 possible
pairwise combinations.  Do you plot all of those?  Seems like you would
overweight the N>2 systems with this method.  If there is a good way to do pair
separations for this sample I’m happy to oblige.

* 4. There are surely other models (e.g. from Bethermin et al.) that could be
  compared to?

A couple of people have asked about this.  What Bethermin models are
recommended to use?  I’m not sure what the value added from considering such
luminosity functions would be.  The two that I use in the revised draft are
based on observed luminosity functions with interferometric follow-up.  This is
quite different from the Bethermin models.


Scott Chapman

*Thanks again for sending this promising work around.

*To recap my own contributions to the telecon discussion:

*Fig7: potentially a big money plot as you say, but need to explore the full
range of possibilities far more, and treat the higher density, bright end
interferometry samples more seriously ... in principle the ALESS sample should
be almost discounted, as the single dish and interferomtry (Karim) counts are
both so low compared to everything else.

I don’t want to get into a full, detailed exploration of the possible
statistical model predictions in this paper.  Instead, for the revised version
I’ve chosen two intrinsic luminosity functions that represent a plausible range
of values based on the ALESS survey and the COSMOS survey.  These lead to
different predictions for magnification factors vs. S870, and I highlight those
differences in the text.  So this is not intended to be a definitive answer to
the question, but rather highlighting a first step on an interesting path for
future research.

*-quantify/discuss any possible lensing in the bright end of the COSMOS sample.
*-if most of these can be shown to be very unlikely lensed, then this is a
powerful constraint on the bright end of the models with a much sharper
'turn-on' for lensing

A detailed study of lensing in the COSMOS sample is beyond the scope of this
paper, which is really not about the COSMOS sample.  In the revised draft I
have added a note that the COSMOS sample may be subject to some amount of
lensing, which would bring its intrinsic luminosity function more in line with
the ALESS luminosity function, but that the evidence from the interferometric
observations in Miettinen+ suggests that this effect is not very significant.


*-explore a much sharper turn-on for lensing, treating the COSMOS
interferometry sample seriously.  *-ALESS known to be in a void, and 'devoid'
of bright sources (both in single dish, and in the ALMA followup with no
sources >9mJy).  *-should explore the steep power law model, with a much
brighter turn over to the steep function.

I think I’ve addressed these points.

*-compare Bethermin models .... how much flexibility in the 'lensed count' ...
can this be easily adapted to produce the COSMOS interferometry count?

Which Bethermin models are being referred to here?  How does this add to the
content of the paper?

*-is it clear that an adjustment in the 'steep power-law model' can avoid
overproducing the 50mJy (lensed) sources  in the later fig7 panels?

In the revised draft, I no longer include a steep power-law model, mainly to
keep things simple.  So I think this concern is no longer relevant.

Fig6 is indeed clearly another 'money plot'
- the caption should state at the end what to conclude from this though. I feel
  like this is good practice in modern paper writing, as it's 'frustrating' for
people to have to dig through the paper to get the punchline about figures if
it's not obvious in the figures themselves

The final sentence in the current caption basically does this, in my opinion.
I’m not sure what could be added (to an already long caption) that would
improve things.

Dimitra Rigopoulou

*Sample Selection  (section 2.1)

*I found the description of the sample a little unclear. It would be useful to
state what catalogue was used to draw the sample.  Is it the HerMES XID ones?
Also, please report the S_500/S_350 and S_350/S_250 colors of the sample
sources.  Was there some tendency to go for the high redshift sources only? It
is not clear from section 2.1 whether this was the case or not. (Likely the
latter but a bit unclear as it stands)

The revised draft has a substantially clearer sample selection section.
Regarding the S500/S350 and S350/S250 colors, interested readers can compute
these from the data in the tables.  I don’t think they are sufficiently
interesting on their own to be reported separately here.

* Table 1: Could you please explain what the various Grades in Column 9 of your
  table 1 mean?

Yes, this is now stated explicitly in the table caption, with a reference to
Section 3.2 for further details.

* Figure 3: please provide scale

The scale is indicated by the labels on the x and y axes.

* Multiplicity of sources (section 4.2)

* I think the comparison with the (modified) Hodge 13 results is informative
  and as you correctly point out the Hodge ’13 result of increased multiplicity
is probably due to an overestimation of the real number of sources. However,
can we convincingly rule out the case where some structures are `over-resolved’
with ALMA? This will still not explain the differences between the present work
and the Hodge ’13 results but if this is the case then it could affect both
datasets (though not sure whether this is quantifiable).

The observations have sufficient uv coverage that we have good sensitivity to
structure on scales of 1-2”, but we don’t see this.  Instead, most structure
appears to be on the size scale of the synthesized beam, which is why most of
the sources have half-light radii of 0.1-0.2”.  So I’m not very worried about
resolving out large-scale emission in these sources.

* Spatial Distribution of Multiple Sources (section 4.3)

* This is an interesting approach to explain whether the multiple sources you
  have detected provide evidence for merging. Although you go to great lengths
to explore this with various models I must admit the last paragraph of this
section is a little inconclusive. Agreed, that it is very hard to prove one way
or another but after almost half a page (or more of discussion) the reader is
left with a rather confused message. Maybe shorten the section somewhat?

The main conclusion is that the models likely need a better treatment of
blending in order to better reproduce what we see.  Exploring this further is
beyond the scope of the paper.


Asantha Cooray

Here are some quick comments, paper looks good, I don't have any objections for
a submission soon.

* 1. lens models only seem to focus on individual lens galaxies. i wonder if
  this is really the case for group/cluster environments adfs02 and xmm03,
which will have additional magnification from shear and an extended potential.

This is a possibility, but one that cannot be seriously explored with the data
at hand.

2. it may be too early to conclude some sources are unlensed, adfs04 should be
fitted by a lens model with an arbitrary lens location to see if the
configuration can be produced with reasonable lens parameters. also xmm124
(without spectroscopy cannot prove HST-detect galaxy is the counterpart to
ALMA), xmm110 ( a simple double - cfht may not be deep enough to detect the
lens), .... i have not gone through each case. in fig 3 there should some way
to classify which ones are models/residuals with lensing included and which
ones are not. perhaps figure 3 can be separate to 3 blocks:  based on table 1
lens grade (table 1 needs a footnote to explain A, C, X)

My first attempt with ADFS04 (now HADFS10) was assuming that it was lensed
(this was before we obtained the Gemini-S data).  In this case, the lens has an
Einstein radius of ~1.2”.  The non-detection with Gemini-S then implies very
high mass-light ratios or very high lens redshifts that are less likely than
the unlensed interpretation.  I added a note about this in the revised text.

Unlensed sources can be identified in figure 3 since they have no critical
curves plotted in the panels.  I considered separating to 3 blocks based on
lensing grade, but decided against it to maintain the same order for the panels
as given in the tables (i.e., sorted by RA).  There are also some cases with
mixed grades (e.g., CDFS_M0) that would be difficult to handle in a logical
way.

* 3. Section 5 is interesting, but seems like requires some incompleteness
  calculation on the alma and sma sample selection or without an accounting of
biases is the sample selection it may not be easy to convert a magnification
distribution to a test on the shape of the LF.

In the revised text, I’ve modified this section to highlight the next steps
forward rather than offer the final word on this subject.  In this light, the
luminosity function based on the COSMOS data has a real problem with
over-predicting the number of unlensed sources with observed S870 ~ 50 mJy.
The over-prediction factor is so large that concerns about incompleteness and
bias in the sample selection are somewhat mitigated.  But this section in the
revised text takes care to emphasize that further research is needed.

Raphael Gavazzi

Like for the analysis of the SMA sample, the work is very impressive and very
carefully presented. I only have very minor comments below. * Title: * ————— *
What does the "dagger" upperscript refer to?

This should have been the obligatory Herschel acknowledgement.  I was missing a
\altaffiltext line.  This is fixed now.

* Introduction: * ————— * Second paragraph: "... to the confusion limit of
  Herschel... plus an additional... confusion limit" sentence is unclear.  Is
it better or poorer?

Clarified that it is shallower.

* intevening-> intervening..

Fixed.

* probibility -> probability.

Fixed.

* End of 4th paragraph: "This could indicate e deficiency in our ..."... I
  would add something in the spirit of the following "or could herald new
insights in the magnifying power of deflectors".

Modified accordingly.

* Section 2: * ————— * I personally know nothing about ALESS. What is it? Why
  so much credit? How do they cope with lensing magnification etc etc.  I'd
recommend you briefly explain the merits of this sample/survey.

ALESS is the only existing sample of DSFGs with interferometric follow-up of a
sensitivity and angular resolution that is comparable to our ALMA data. This
statement has been added at the beginning of Section 4 for readers who are
completely unfamiliar with ALESS.

* Table 1... you should explain the meaning of grades A/C/X in the caption. Why
  aren't there 6 entries with an A grade. I suspect the missing system is
XMM109, isn't it?

This is added now. Yes, XMM109 was the one I’d missed in the first draft. This
is fixed now (it’s also been renamed HXMM30).

* ALMA imaging.  Maybe a brief comment on the shape of beam. Importance of
  side-lobes. ALMA data are quite new and most people still don't really
apreciate how good  the data are. Labels on the Fig 2 are a bit too small...
Didn't try to print in gray-scale but are you sure it will be readable?

The beam shape is not really that different from other interferometers.  I
think there is not a great need to state it explicitly here.  The main thing
that is impressive is the sensitivity.  I do go into some detail on the steps I
took to improve upon the pipeline data provided by the ALMA data reduction
team.

If one reads the paper online, you can zoom on any image you want.  I know that
this is not the best solution, but if I use two columns instead of three, the
images take up many more pages.  I think this is the best compromise in terms
of space.  Central positions of the dashed white squares in Figure 2 are given
in Table 1.

* Gemini imaging.  Perhaps one sentence or two quoting the limiting magnitude
  of this imaging data set. What do you really mean by (image quality =
85%=1.1"). The usual metric for the seeing is the FWHM of the PSF!  Likewise,
even if not very needed, but for the sake of completeness, you should quote the
Field-of-View of  GMOS Imager.

I modified the statement about image quality to clarify that 85th percentile
conditions typically means 1.1”.  The field of view is really not relevant here
since there is only one target per pointing.

Section 3: ---------- * Perhaps, stress that the hypothesis of secondary,
tertiary,... lenses being at the same redshift at the primary deflector is a
very sensible assumption. Minor changes should occur would this assumption be
violated. To first order only the conversion from an angular Einstein  radius
to a physical mass scale would be affected and you're not looking into those
issues here.

This is a good point, thanks. I’ve noted this in the revised text.

* Individual systems: (a bit long and painful to read extensively I reckon,
  what about putting that into an appendix?). I mostly found all your models
very convincing.  From time to time, you change the assumptions about the
Einstein radius of poorly constrained (weak lensing) systems. Although I found
your choices much sensible, it can be a bit confusing (sometimes maximal
lensing, sometimes fixed to 0.5" sometimes 1"...). This has some implications
on the distribution in magnification at the low end (cf your discussion on the
statistics of mu~1.1 systems). Could you quantify how much the findings at the
low-magnification end are driven by your modeling priors (either explicit or
implicit).

I thought about putting this section in an appendix.  I think there are pros
and cons of each choice.  On balance I favor keeping it in the main text.

The revised draft has a better, more systematic way of dealing with situations
where we have only upper limits on mu.  In the revised draft, I re-compute mu
as mu= (mu_limiting + 1)/2 and the uncertainty in mu as e_mu = (mu_limiting -
1)/2.  These values for mu are propagated through to the 

* ADFS05. Can you better explain why the two blobs cannot be multiple images of
  the same source? Just the lack of  an obvious deflector or is it that the
modeling doesn't like strong lensing.

The lack of a deflector is the main reason.  The blobs are really close
together, almost overlapping.  I think that also points away from the lensing
hypothesis in this system.

* CDFS_M0. instead of "Two sources are  detected by ALMA..." I'd write : "2
  background sources (1 multiply-imaged, 1 singly imaged) plus 1 image of the
foreground deflector are detected by ALMA"  to make things clearer. I don't
believe the small error bars on the magnification of the weakly lensed source.
0.002 is definitely driven by your prior assumptions. You're not even sure it
is at the same redshift as the multiply-imaged source.

Text is modified accordingly.  I noted that the uncertainty is valid under the
assumptions we have made, and could in reality be an underestimate by a factor
of a few.

* Elais S1. magnication -> magnification

Fixed.

* XMM16. again the small error bar in magnification sounds unrealistic to me.
  Must be driven by your priors. Would you change the Einstein radius by 10-30%
(still sensible), the magnification would change by the same amount... Cannot
be constrained at the 1.19 \pm 1 % level.

In this case, the uncertainties were erroneously low because I only reported
the value for the maximal lensing scenario. I’ve modified them in the revised
draft according to the formula I mentioned earlier. In this case, mu becomes
1.50 +/- 0.25.

* XMM109. Is this system the missing grade A strong lens. Should be more clear
  (cf problem of table 1)

Fixed.

* For unconstrained lenses (Rein fixed), why fitting for ellipticity and
  position angle? To me, it seems a bit odd. I'd rather proceed the other way
around by assuming a circular mass distribution and fitting for Rein when there
is still some signal.

I think of ellipticity and position angle as nuisance parameters. They are not
relevant to the science at hand, but could be important for getting the correct
answer for the other parameters. You might be right that in this case a simpler
model would have sufficed, but I went ahead and did this anyway.

* Caption of Fig3:  resdiual -> residual

Fixed.

* Table 2:  Why uncertainties in RA are a factor 10 better than in DEC?

Because the units of RA are hours, not degrees.

* Section 4: ---------- 3rd paragraph: "For comparison, .... selection
  effects". I couldn't understand the meaning of this part.

Re-written to add clarity.

* Sect. 4.2 and fig 5. <Scomponent/Stotal> is there a data point for each
  subcomponent or just the brightest? I found this discussion a bit unclear.

This figure is a reproduction of one of the figures from Hodge et al. 2013, so
it serves as a useful comparison with ALESS.

* Sect 4.3...  ALESS 122 -> ??? Fig 6, although the colorful left panel with
  hexagonal cells looks pretty, I don't see why it should bring something over
an azymuthally-averaged profile?! (it's a stack after all)

I think you hit right on it: it looks pretty and draws the reader in.

* Section 5: ---------- It wasn't clear to me how you combined calculations for
  SIS and NFW profiles!!!

* One undefined reference (COSMOS -> ?)

Fixed.

* What are the units of the luminosity function and in particular n*, Mpc^-3,
  arcmin^-2...?

Added units to Table 4.

* Fig 7, I'd like to see both the lensed and intrinsic versions of the
  luminosity functions. Do they pass through the COSMOS points once
magnification is included? Is ALESS distribution instrinsic or lensed? If the
latter, how was this done? in the caption magneta -> magenta.

I want to avoid overloading the reader with information.  I show only the
intrinsic luminosity functions because I show data from ALESS and COSMOS that
are either unlensed or with relatively small lensing corrections, thanks to the
interferometric observations.

* How much margin do you have in the P(mu) ? It looks like everything is
  constrained by other means. No room for changes?

Do you mean how much uncertainty is there in the predicted P(mu) values?  The
uncertainty is large.  In the previous draft, I did not show the uncertainties
because I felt like it caused too much clutter.  It may be possible in the
revised draft to do this, but I still wish to avoid too much clutter, so I’m
leaving them out for now.  I do discuss the dispersion in the predicted <mu>
values in the text.

* I apreciated you mentioned the issue of the source size at the high flux end.
  Couldn't it also affect the transition regime (S~10-30 mJy)?

The revised draft reduces the distinction between the “intermediate” and “high”
flux regimes, so this point has become less relevant.

* Given my previous concern on the low magnification regime where prior
  assumptions might dominate, couldn't you also consider a mu_min value of 4 or
so?

The revised draft has a better way of handling the prior assumptions, so I
think we’re ok here.

* Side remark: is the size distribtuion of source consistent between SMA  and
  ALMA constraints?

* Conclusion: ---------- and throughout sometimes you quote 5 are strongly
  lensed, sometimes 6... could lift ambiguities.

Clarified things here to remove ambiguities.

* coud -> could.

Fixed.
